# Spring-Boot Angular Banking App

Welcome to the Full-Stack Banking Application, a modern web-based platform that provides a comprehensive suite of banking services. This application is designed to simulate a real-world banking system, offering users the ability to manage their accounts, perform transactions, apply for loans, and more, all through an intuitive and user-friendly interface.

## Prerequisites

- Java 11 or higher
- Node.js and npm
- Angular CLI
- Maven

## Technologies Used

### Frontend Technologies

- `Angular` : The primary framework for building the web application's user interface.
- `TypeScript` : A statically typed superset of JavaScript used for writing Angular code.
- `HTML5 & CSS3` : Standard technologies for structuring and styling the web pages.
- `Tailwind CSS (or another CSS framework)` : A utility-first CSS framework used for styling the application.
- `Angular Router` : For client-side routing and navigation between different views of the application.
- `Angular Forms` : For handling form validation and user input management.
- `NgRx (if used)` : A state management library for Angular applications.
- `Angular CLI` : A command-line interface for managing and building Angular projects.
- `Axios/HttpClient` : For making HTTP requests to the backend services.

### Backend Technologies

- `Spring Boot` : The main framework used to build the backend services, including RESTful APIs.
- `H2 In-Memory DB` : Database for storing customer information, transactions data, and card details.
- `JPA (Java Persistence API)` : Used for interacting with the database in a standardized way.
- `Maven (or Gradle)` : For project build and dependency management.
- `JUnit` : For unit testing the backend services.

## Installation

### Step 1 : Clone the repository

Clone the project repository from GitHub:

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd your-repository
```

### Step 2: Set Up the Backend ( Java Spring Boot)

1. Navigate to the backend directory:

   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

2. Build the Spring Boot project using Maven:

   ```bash
   mvn clean install
   ```

3. Run the Spring Boot application:

   ```bash
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

  The backend server should now be running.

### Step 3: Set Up the Frontend (Angular)

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:

   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies using npm:

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the Angular development server:

   ```bash
   ng serve
   ```

  The frontend application should now be running on `http://localhost:4200`.

## Available Scripts

### Frontend (Angular)

In the `frontend` directory, you can run the following scripts:

- **`ng serve`**:
  - Starts the Angular development server.
  - The application will be available at `http://localhost:4200`.
- **`ng build`**:
  - Compiles the Angular application into an optimized production build.
  - The output will be stored in the `dist/` directory.
- **`ng test`**:
  - Runs unit tests using Karma and Jasmine.
- **`ng lint`**:
  - Runs linting tools on your Angular code to ensure code quality.
- **`ng e2e`**:
  - Runs end-to-end tests using Protractor.

### Backend (Spring Boot)

In the `backend` directory, you can run the following Maven commands:

- **`mvn clean install`**:
  - Cleans the target directory and builds the project.
- **`mvn spring-boot:run`**:
  - Runs the Spring Boot application. The backend server now will be available.
- **`mvn test`**:
  - Runs the unit tests for the Spring Boot application using JUnit.
- **`mvn package`**:
  - Packages the Spring Boot application into a JAR file located in the `target/` directory.
- **`mvn clean`**:
  - Cleans the `target/` directory, removing all files generated by the previous build.

## Folder Structure

```
├── src
│ ├── app
│ ├── assets
│ ├── account
│ ├── beneficiary
│ ├── cards
│ ├── components
│ │     └── navbar
│ ├── dashboard
│ ├── login
│ ├── profile
│ ├── send-money
│ └── transaction
├── package.json
├── angular.json
└── testconfig.json
```

- `src`: Contains the source code for the frontend.
  - `assets`: Holds static assets such as images, stylesheets, or fonts.
  - `app`: Contains reusable angular components used throughout the application.
    - `account`: Customers can create accounts related UI components.
    - `beneficiary`: Beneficiary releted UI components
    - `cards`: Card related UI components.
    - `dashboard`: Contains the UI for dashboard.
    - `login`: All the login related views and logics.
    - `profile`: Profile releted views and logic are there.
    - `send-money`: It contain the UI for Send money.
    - `transaction`: Transaction releted UI and logic are there.
  - `package.json`: Package information.
  - `angular.json`: Angular related information.

## Features

This full-stack banking application offers a range of features that simulate real-world banking services, providing both users and administrators with essential tools for managing their finances and the system.

### User Features

- **User Authentication**: Secure login and registration system using Spring Security, with support for roles such as customer and admin.
- **Account Management**: Users can view their account balance, transaction history, and personal details.
- **Bill Payments**: Users can pay utility bills, credit card bills, and more directly from their accounts.
- **Loan Application**: Users can apply for various types of loans (e.g., car loan, home loan) and track the status of their applications.
- **Profile Management**: Users can update their personal information, change passwords, and manage contact details.
- **Block/Unblock Cards**: Customers can block and unblock cards.
- **Update Pin**: Customers can change card pin.

### Admin Features

- **Admin Dashboard**: A centralized dashboard for administrators to monitor system performance, user activities, and other key metrics.
- **User Management**: Admins can view, add, edit, and delete user accounts, as well as reset passwords.
- **Transaction Monitoring**: Real-time monitoring of all transactions happening within the system, with options for generating reports.
- **Loan Management**: Admins can view and process loan applications, approve or reject them, and manage loan disbursements.
- **Audit Logs**: Keep track of all administrative actions within the system for security and compliance purposes.

### Security Features

- **Spring Security Integration**: Robust security framework to handle authentication, authorization, and access control.
- **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**: Different access levels for customers and admins to ensure that only authorized users can access certain features.
- **Data Encryption**: Sensitive data such as passwords are encrypted using industry-standard algorithms.
- **CSRF Protection**: Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) protection is enabled to prevent unauthorized actions on behalf of authenticated users.
- **Input Validation**: Server-side validation for all user inputs to protect against SQL injection, XSS, and other common vulnerabilities.

### Additional Features

- **Responsive Design**: The application is fully responsive, providing an optimal viewing experience across a wide range of devices.
- **API Documentation**: Comprehensive documentation of the backend APIs using Swagger, making it easy for developers to understand and interact with the system.
- **Unit and Integration Testing**: Thorough testing of both frontend and backend components to ensure reliability and stability.

## Example Usage

### Dynamic Form with Stepper on ApplyLoanComponent

The `apply-loan` component features a dynamic form for handling loan applications. This form adapts based on configurations defined in `form-fields.helper.ts`, ensuring flexibility and ease of maintenance.

#### Field Definitions

Form fields are specified in `form-fields.helper.ts` using the `FormField` interface:

```typescript
export interface FormField {
  type: string;
  name: string;
  placeholder: string;
  label: string;
  validators: string[];
  col: number | string;
  step: number;
  category: string;
  options?: string | string[];
}
```

Example Field Definition:

```typescript
{
  type: "text",
  name: "fname",
  placeholder: "Enter firstname",
  label: "Name",
  validators: ["required"],
  col: 6,
  step: 1,
  category: "Personal Info",
}
```

#### Component Implementation

In the `apply-loan` component, the form is dynamically generated based on the field definitions:

- `createFormControls()` : Initializes form controls based on the field definitions.
- `createSteps()` : Generates steps for the form based on categories.
- `panValidator(control: any)`: Custom validator for PAN numbers.
- `nextStep(), previousStep()` : Methods to navigate between steps.
- `onSubmit()` : Handles form submission when form is valid.

#### HTML Integration

To render the dynamic form in the HTML template, use Angular directives and bindings:

#### 1. Render Form Controls

Dynamically generate form controls based on the `applicantFields`:

  ```html
  <input
    [formControlName]="field.name"
    [placeholder]="field.placeholder"
    [attr.type]="field.type"
  />
  ```
#### 2. Display Error Message 

Error messages are displayed for fields that are invalid and have been touched. The `getErrorMessage()` function retrieves the appropriate error message for each field.

```html
<div
  *ngIf="dynamicForm.get(field.name)?.invalid && dynamicForm.get(field.name)?.touched"
>
  {{ getErrorMessage(field.name) }}
</div>
```

#### 3. Navigation

Include buttons to navigate between steps :

```html
<button type="button" (click)="previousStep()">Previous</button>
<button type="button" (click)="nextStep()">Next</button>
```

#### 4. Submission Button

A submit button is provided to trigger form submission.

```html
<button type="submit">Submit</button>
```

#### Testing

To ensure the functionality of the `applyLoan` component and its dynamic form, various tests should be conducted. Below are some example test cases you can use to verify the component's behavior:

##### Test Cases

- `Form Initialization` : Verify that the form controls are created based on the field definitions from `applicantFields`.
- `Validation Messages` : Check that validation messages are displayed correctly for required fields.
- `Step Creation` : Verify that steps are created correctly based on the form categories.
- `Navigation` : Ensure that the form navigates to the next step only when the current step is complete.
- `Form Submission` : Test form submission to ensure that the form values are logged correctly when the form is valid.
- `Object Retrieval` : Verify that options for select fields are retrieved correctly.




